Glasscutter is a program that slices color 3D objects into a set of
flat slices.


This version of Glasscutter can only slice ascii-formatted,
vertex-colored PLY files.  Fortunately, the open-source software
Meshlab can convert just about any 3D file format into
ascii-formatted, vertex-colored PLYs.  Here's how:

First, the vertex coloring.  There are two ways to color 3D files:
vertex coloring and texture-mapping.  In texture mapping, there is an
image file that contains the flattened "skin" of the 3D object.  Each
vertex in the mesh contains a co-ordinate from the texture that
describes how to wrap the skin around the mesh.  Glasscutter doesn't
handle this, yet.  If you want to help make this happen, you would
be a rock star hero.

Vertex coloring is the other approach.  In this approach, each vertex
in the mesh has a certain color.  When the renderer draws the
triangles in the mesh, it'll color each triangle with a linear
gradient between the vertex colors along the triangle's surface.  This
is a much simpler way to color a mesh, but it has a limitation:  the
resolution of a vertex-colored mesh is based on the number of vertices
in the mesh.  You can add more vertices to increase the resolution,
but it makes the 3D file larger and more difficult to handle.  Texture
mapping scales much better.  

You can use meshlab to convert a texture-mapped mesh to a
vertex-colored mesh.  Open the 3D file in Meshlab, and then go to to
Filters->Color Creation and Processing->Transfer Color: Texture to
Vertex.  Give it a second, and your 3D object will now be
vertex-colored.  You'll still have to export the PLY file, though.
Read below to see how.





